website/content/docs/configuration/sandbox.mdx, before:

---
title: Sandbox
description: Configure sandboxed agent execution with Bubblewrap or Docker.
---

## Sandbox Overview

Ralph TUI can run agent commands inside a sandbox to reduce access to your machine. When enabled, the sandbox limits filesystem access to your project directory and any explicit allowlists, and can disable network access.

Sandboxing is opt-in and controlled through configuration or CLI flags. Auto mode will select the most secure sandbox available for your platform.

## What Sandboxing Protects

- Limits write access to your project directory and any `allowPaths` you list.
- Mounts system directories as read-only to reduce accidental changes.
- Can disable network access to block outbound calls.

## What It Does Not Protect

- It is not a VM-level security boundary; treat it as defense in depth.
- Any paths you add to `allowPaths` remain writable by the agent.
- Any paths you add to `readOnlyPaths` remain readable by the agent.
- It does not enforce CPU, memory, or process limits.

## Platform Requirements

Sandbox mode uses different backends depending on platform:

- **Linux**: Bubblewrap (`bwrap`) is preferred when installed.
- **macOS/Windows**: Docker is required for sandboxing.
- **All platforms**: If the required backend is missing, auto mode falls back to `off`.

## Install Bubblewrap (Linux)

Install Bubblewrap with your package manager. On Debian/Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt install bubblewrap
```

## Sandbox Modes

Sandbox mode is selected by the `sandbox.mode` setting or the CLI flag:

| Mode | Behavior |
|------|----------|
| `auto` | Use Bubblewrap on Linux if available, otherwise Docker, otherwise `off` |
| `bwrap` | Force Bubblewrap (Linux only) |
| `docker` | Force Docker sandboxing |
| `off` | Disable sandboxing |

## Configuration Options

Configure sandboxing in your config file:

```toml
[sandbox]
enabled = true
mode = "auto"
network = true
allowPaths = ["/path/to/allow"]
readOnlyPaths = ["/path/to/read-only"]
image = "ubuntu:22.04"
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `sandbox.enabled` | boolean | `false` | Enable sandboxing for agent execution |
| `sandbox.mode` | string | `"auto"` | Sandbox backend (`auto`, `bwrap`, `docker`, `off`) |
| `sandbox.network` | boolean | `true` | Allow network access inside sandbox |
| `sandbox.allowPaths` | string[] | `[]` | Additional writable paths (absolute or relative to project root) |
| `sandbox.readOnlyPaths` | string[] | `[]` | Additional read-only paths (absolute or relative to project root) |
| `sandbox.image` | string | `"ubuntu:22.04"` | Docker image for sandboxed runs |

## CLI Flags

CLI flags override config file settings:

| Flag | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `--sandbox` | Enable sandboxing in auto mode |
| `--sandbox=bwrap` | Force Bubblewrap sandboxing |
| `--sandbox=docker` | Force Docker sandboxing |
| `--no-sandbox` | Disable sandboxing |
| `--no-network` | Disable network access in the sandbox |

## Examples

Enable sandboxing without network access:

```bash
ralph-tui run --sandbox --no-network
```

Force Docker sandboxing with a custom image:

```toml
[sandbox]
enabled = true
mode = "docker"
image = "ubuntu:22.04"
```

Commit message:

feat: add warning when --no-network conflicts with agent requirements
- Add engine:warning event type for configuration warnings
- Emit warning when sandbox network disabled but agent requires network
- Handle warning in both TUI (stderr) and headless (structured logger) modes
- Update sandbox.mdx docs with network access considerations

website/content/docs/configuration/sandbox.mdx, after:

---
title: Sandbox
description: Configure sandboxed agent execution with Bubblewrap or Docker.
---

## Sandbox Overview

Ralph TUI can run agent commands inside a sandbox to reduce access to your machine. When enabled, the sandbox limits filesystem access to your project directory and any explicit allowlists, and can disable network access.

Sandboxing is opt-in and controlled through configuration or CLI flags. Auto mode will select the most secure sandbox available for your platform.

## What Sandboxing Protects

- Limits write access to your project directory and any `allowPaths` you list.
- Mounts system directories as read-only to reduce accidental changes.
- Can disable network access to block outbound calls.

## What It Does Not Protect

- It is not a VM-level security boundary; treat it as defense in depth.
- Any paths you add to `allowPaths` remain writable by the agent.
- Any paths you add to `readOnlyPaths` remain readable by the agent.
- It does not enforce CPU, memory, or process limits.

## Platform Requirements

Sandbox mode uses different backends depending on platform:

- **Linux**: Bubblewrap (`bwrap`) is preferred when installed.
- **macOS/Windows**: Docker is required for sandboxing.
- **All platforms**: If the required backend is missing, auto mode falls back to `off`.

## Install Bubblewrap (Linux)

Install Bubblewrap with your package manager. On Debian/Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt install bubblewrap
```

## Sandbox Modes

Sandbox mode is selected by the `sandbox.mode` setting or the CLI flag:

| Mode | Behavior |
|------|----------|
| `auto` | Use Bubblewrap on Linux if available, otherwise Docker, otherwise `off` |
| `bwrap` | Force Bubblewrap (Linux only) |
| `docker` | Force Docker sandboxing |
| `off` | Disable sandboxing |

## Configuration Options

Configure sandboxing in your config file:

```toml
[sandbox]
enabled = true
mode = "auto"
network = true
allowPaths = ["/path/to/allow"]
readOnlyPaths = ["/path/to/read-only"]
image = "ubuntu:22.04"
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `sandbox.enabled` | boolean | `false` | Enable sandboxing for agent execution |
| `sandbox.mode` | string | `"auto"` | Sandbox backend (`auto`, `bwrap`, `docker`, `off`) |
| `sandbox.network` | boolean | `true` | Allow network access inside sandbox |
| `sandbox.allowPaths` | string[] | `[]` | Additional writable paths (absolute or relative to project root) |
| `sandbox.readOnlyPaths` | string[] | `[]` | Additional read-only paths (absolute or relative to project root) |
| `sandbox.image` | string | `"ubuntu:22.04"` | Docker image for sandboxed runs |

## CLI Flags

CLI flags override config file settings:

| Flag | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `--sandbox` | Enable sandboxing in auto mode |
| `--sandbox=bwrap` | Force Bubblewrap sandboxing |
| `--sandbox=docker` | Force Docker sandboxing |
| `--no-sandbox` | Disable sandboxing |
| `--no-network` | Disable network access in the sandbox |

## Network Access Warning

The `--no-network` flag disables **all** network access inside the sandbox, including LLM API calls. This means:

- **Cloud-based agents will fail**: All current built-in agents (`claude`, `opencode`, `gemini-cli`) require network access to communicate with their respective LLM APIs. Using `--no-network` with these agents will cause API calls to fail.

- **Ralph TUI will warn you**: When you use `--no-network` with an agent that declares `requiresNetwork: true`, Ralph TUI emits a warning at startup:

  ```
  ⚠️  Warning: Agent 'claude' requires network access but --no-network is enabled. LLM API calls will fail.
  ```

### When `--no-network` Makes Sense

The `--no-network` flag is designed for future agent plugins that don't need network access:

| Use Case | Example Agents |
|----------|----------------|
| **Local LLMs** | Agents using Ollama, llama.cpp, LM Studio, or LocalAI |
| **Offline tools** | Static analysis tools, code formatters, linters |
| **Security auditing** | Testing what network calls an agent attempts |
| **Air-gapped environments** | Enterprise setups with strict network isolation |

If you're using the built-in cloud-based agents (`claude`, `opencode`, `gemini-cli`), leave `network = true` (the default) or omit `--no-network`.

## Examples

Enable sandboxing without network access:

```bash
ralph-tui run --sandbox --no-network
```

Force Docker sandboxing with a custom image:

```toml
[sandbox]
enabled = true
mode = "docker"
image = "ubuntu:22.04"
```
